[Music]
[Applause]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. We respectfully
beseech all Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and virtuous and holy
monks to witness and bless us. We also invite all
Buddhas, King Indra, the Four Heavenly Kings, the Devas, Dragons, Eightfold Deities,
Dharma Protectors,
and benevolent deities to descend and bless us. Our
Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
with the permission of our
teacher and the great Sangha, has gathered
at
Bao Ho, the main hall of the temple, to conduct our club activities. Applying the Buddha's teachings through the guidance of our teacher and the great Sangha into our daily lives, we humbly ask all Buddhas to witness and bless us. Namo Bodhisattva Mahasattva, Namo Bodhisattva Mahasattva, Namo Bodhisattva Mahasattva, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully
Dear all, today,
as usual, our club
will be holding a Dharma discussion session. This
session will have two
parts: the first is
encouraging each other to practice through questions from
Buddhists, applying them to
daily life; the second is discussing the
Dharma, meaning anyone with questions about the Dharma can
discuss it. This time, we will discuss the
Dharma of Venerable Thich Thong Lac through
questions; and the first part is Yen
Answering Questions. Yen has selected some
typical questions that have been asked on the
Quoc Vang page and the Pham Thi
Yen page via message or posted
on the wall. The rest of the questions are welcome from all Buddhists.
During the Dharma discussion session, if anyone has
any opinions, please raise your
hand to contribute and
share with the community. If
there is anything the community
finds unsatisfactory, please
raise your hand so we can encourage each
other. Dear all, in the
past period, there was a section
where Buddhist
follower Vu Thi...  Kim Nien was on Facebook and we
chatted yesterday. Yen was also working
late, so after that,
Kim Nien gave Yen her phone number, and
Yen called her directly.
Because on the page, she couldn't
fully express her thoughts. She didn't ask the necessary questions, but instead included her
own opinions on unnecessary topics,
and even included things directly in the
post that Dang Thu Quynh Giao was referring to.
Therefore, there were misunderstandings on the page.
Yesterday, Yen
talked to her and understood the situation clearly, and
informed her. So,
through
this, Yen also reminds everyone that when
we chat on Facebook,
we can say what is
right and what is wrong, but we shouldn't
talk about the private lives of the people we're
talking to. Is that right? We
're discussing the Dharma, like the old man Wu Lao, who
before meeting the Buddha killed
999 people. But after meeting the Buddha, he
was taught by the Buddha,
diligently practiced, and attained enlightenment.
Therefore, we don't need to know
who this person is or what they did before, whether good or
bad. Our comments should be based
on the content we receive, so that the public
agrees. We
see that in recent times,
we've been relying on the person, not the
Dharma, meaning we're just basing our judgment on whether they were
good or bad before. Then they fabricate and invent
stories, like Yen, for example, they
even created a
personal biography page for her and posted it there.
So, we must follow the Buddha's teachings and rely on the
Dharma, not the person. It's the same in this world.
People who have committed crimes like addiction,
murder, and many other things, after
they've reformed, our society does
n't discriminate against them, right? We even
integrate them into
normal life. So now, Yen
will invite the public to join us for
two parts of sharing. The first part will be
about questions related to life at home. Now,
Yen will read to the public a
question that was posted here, a question
from a Facebook page.  The
first question Yen asked was about
applying Buddhist teachings to daily life
for
benefit, specifically how to handle a
husband's infidelity. It's the same as before.
The question above was sent via
anonymous message to Yen. "
Teacher, I've listened to your explanation and
guidance on how to deal with a husband's
infidelity, but my situation is
a bit more complicated, so I'd like your
advice. My husband is having an affair and
has a child with another woman. I was so angry that I left and went back to my
parents' house almost a year ago. I have
n't returned for Tet (Lunar New Year) and have cut off contact with my husband's family. They
initially called, but
I listened to my parents and didn't go back. If I did, they
would disown me and consider me their daughter.
Part of me also thought that since my husband no
longer loved me, going back would only bring suffering, so I
let him marry the other woman so that
my children and I could live peacefully like this. But now, after
listening to your teachings and
understanding your point, I can't change things.
I've gone too far by leaving my husband's family, and
now they don't recognize me anymore."
My niece is also wondering if cutting off
contact and not letting her child come home for Tet (Lunar New Year)
is creating bad karma. Furthermore, her
mother
is forbidding her from contacting her husband and not
letting him return. What should she do?
Her mother says that if her husband wants to be with his wife and
child, he has to come here to work so she can
trust him; otherwise, she forbids her from
coming home. She's so distressed, Auntie, but now even if she wanted to go back to her husband's house, she couldn't. She's just worried about creating bad karma. Auntie, please help me figure out how to stay at my parents' house without creating bad
karma. All I want is for
my husband to listen to me, come to my parents' house to
work, and live with me and my child. I ca
n't go back to my hometown because my mother says going back
means cutting ties. So I can't go back, and
things are more complicated now.
I've been gone for almost a year, and my husband
says he won't let me set foot back again. I really
need your advice. Do
n't you all agree that our lives are very complicated?
Every family has its own
circumstances, so we encounter so much
suffering and confusion in
our hearts. If we don't know how...  To
answer this question, Yen would like to
share a real-life story from her
past. She has encountered many hardships in her life, which
allowed her to empathize with and
understand the
suffering of others, corresponding to
her own suffering. Respectfully, to the audience, the story of her
family is also very normal. Yen
learned about Buddhism because the Buddha often spoke about his
past lives, recounting everything that had happened
to become a
lesson for future generations. Yen will
also clearly share about her family
to apply this to the situation. In
Yen's family, there
are two mothers, meaning one father and two
mothers. The first mother doesn't have children. The father lives with the
first mother, while the second mother is Yen's mother.
When Yen was very young, in
third grade, Yen remembers clearly one recess. As soon as Yen
arrived, a
group of friends said, "Oh,
Yen, your father is named Thuong Yen.
He doesn't have a father, he only has a mother."
Because of their circumstances, the whole neighborhood went to school
together, so they understood each other's situations very well.
When Yen heard
that, she was very angry inside,
but not angry at her father.
Yen had a strong will,
thinking to herself, "I've lived for many children who have
both parents, so they can look up to me and
learn."
That was a strong will, a powerful
motivation,
and she never thought of herself as
someone without a father by her side.
That's the strength of
those without a father.
This part is also to let the children know
that a child, whether with or without a
father, develops based on their acceptance
of the present and the world, right?
How do they accept the present?
Parents must help their children
accept things in a way that is kind and good.
When they are at home,
every afternoon, when Yen
hears the train whistle at the
dock, and every
afternoon her sisters say, "Dad's here!
Dad's here!" Meaning, Dad has come from the countryside.  When she
saw him, she'd say, "Dad's not
coming out anymore." It became a habit;
every afternoon she'd say, "Dad's coming out, Dad's coming out!" That is,
if she had a strong feeling about
her father, her mother, Yen, would often express her
frustrations about him
to her children. Yen
remembers that year, around grade
B, sitting in their small house on a
cold evening, her mother was talking
about how Dad didn't care, how he didn't give
her money to raise the children, how she had to struggle
alone. At that time, Yen replied
to her mother, "I don't like
you talking about Dad like
that. That's your and Dad's business,
not ours." Then her mother
scolded her, "You little brat, you've been eating that
long!"
So, in Yen's family, there were
two sides
because of her mother's habits.
One
side resented and
treated her father badly,
while Yen thought that in her mind, her father
giving her life was good enough.
What more could I ask for? I always cherish my
parents back home. In response, even though
it was
my situation, my father confided in me like this: "Your mother has
five sisters to keep her
company, but your mother doesn't have any children,
so I'm here to keep her company and ease her
loneliness." Yen saw the sincerity in her father's heart; he
truly had very thoughtful thoughts.
To be reciprocated with such kindness, every time
Yen went back home,
both her mother and father would look forward to it, from youth
to old age. Even when they were very old,
Yen would go back home. If Yen said, "Dad, Mom, I'm coming home tomorrow," or
if she had to come home late, they would keep asking, "My child, my
child,
where are you?" That's the heart of a
father. Even though circumstances
prevented him from being with his child to care for her, a
father still loves
his child very much. In youth, perhaps due to impulsiveness, some
thought, some circumstance, a
father still loves his
child very much, right? He loves his child very much.
But Yen's mother...  There's a
wonderful tradition: every summer, the children are always brought home
for three months to be cared for by their mother and
father. That's the
amazing thing about a mother,
even though she raises the children alone and the
father's contribution isn't much.
Who can truly understand the feelings of the children in Yen's family? Those who do
understand will be deeply imbued with the love of both father
and mother, never feeling any lack.
So, this is Yen recounting
this process from childhood to adulthood.
Based on her own real-life experiences,
Yen advises her nieces and
others in similar situations: "
My fate with my husband is
different from my child's fate with their husband. You
can't force your child to be exactly the same, to have the same
karma as you. The
karmic connection between father and child must be
strong, even if the husband is worthless, even if he
treats
you cruelly. For now, you must
nurture the child's heart
towards their father, their ancestors, and their
grandparents. By doing so, you've benefited
your child, because your child will know how to live a virtuous life."  The
general public agrees that filial piety is important,
right?
If, because of our karma, our
resentments, and our hatred, we steal
away the love between father and
child, grandmother and ancestors, then we become
evil people who don't know how to love our children. The general public agrees,
right?
This mother has become an
evil person, not giving her child the environment of a
father and ancestors who have
nurtured and
raised her for many generations.
Now, this child exists in this world. The general public
agrees, right? Because in
reality, this girl can't even
get a single penny from her husband for her child. The general public agrees,
right? We will
accept raising our child with
our own ability, but regarding the emotional aspect, we
must ensure our child is well.
Therefore, we apply Buddhist
principles; we will use the method of preventing evil, eradicating
evil, and cultivating good.
So now, we will live like this, raising our
children. The general public agrees, right?
We will live like this, sacrificing for our children.
Two children already. If, in
real life, we remarry,
then what about our children?  It
makes things so complicated when
we have to deal with it, and we will live in
suffering. And a second idea is that
we always have to find someone to
rely on. Why
can't we be a source of support for everyone? Is
n't that right? Why does a wife
always have to seek out a husband for
support, but she can't be a
source of support for her own child?
When this situation happens, we
must consciously (as you can see) be a source of support
for our child.
Both mentally and materially,
we will be a source of support for our child. Therefore,
we won't resent our husband for whether he
cares or not, for whether he provides for us
or not. Because resentment doesn't
solve anything, does it? It
doesn't change the situation,
right? Resentment only causes
more trouble, it can't change the situation.
Those who resent are those who
can't live in the present moment,
right? Always
dwelling on the painful past leads
us to commit evil in the present. If
we dwell on the past...  If the past allows
us to
grow in goodness in the present, then we will seek
solace, without anger, resentment, or
blame, and we will practice patience
to do good. The community sees this as correct.
That's how we write about the past, so
we will practice patience to do good.
Another thing is to change the
situation in the present. As the elders
said, "Don't hit someone who's running away, but don't
hit someone who's running back." In Buddhism,
if you see a mistake, correct it. Patience to progress
will lead to taking the child to her husband's house to visit. The community
sees this as correct. Taking her back to buy flowers and offer
incense to the
ancestors. Once, if she meets her in-laws and they're
too awful,
she'll leave without saying anything, just practicing patience
because she has already made a mistake. Now
she wants her child to remember her
roots, to be grateful and obedient, so she must be a
role model for her to follow. Furthermore, she will try
many times. If it's not enough once, try
10 times, if it's not enough 10 times, try 100
times, then the ancestors will accept her. The
community sees this as correct, right?
But she must also understand karma.
If this husband of hers...  He
already had a relationship with the other wife and they have a
child together. It's normal to go and talk to her. He can say, "
I'm his past life partner.
We have two children together. Now
you're his future life partner, you have a child, and
I'm not taking him for economic reasons or
emotional reasons. That means I have no relationship
with him anymore. But I will
give my child away so that father and child can have a bond. If
we live like that,
the husband will change his mind. Is
n't that right? But we have to
live right, we don't want the
husband to come back to us. Because if
he comes back, the
second woman will suffer.
Everyone will suffer a lot. So we
will practice giving, giving and offering, that is,
letting others be happy
and enduring the
hardships ourselves. But it's also
right because they've already separated.
Don't be serious with
this husband because at some point
he'll get sad about the second wife and
he'll come back to her."  If I
were to have a relationship with this husband again,
I would be committing the sin of
adultery. Do you agree? Because he has
already married a second woman,
and I am the one who no
longer has a physical relationship with him, only a
spiritual one, like raising children.
If I engage in any
physical activity with my ex-husband,
I know I am continuing to commit the
sin of adultery, and remember the suffering
I have endured; it will be the karmic consequence in
future lives. Then there's another part: I
have to tell my parents,
I have to say something like, "I'm not going to marry
this man anymore." But
if you put yourself in my mother's shoes, she has two grandchildren,
and now her daughter-in-law won't let her come back or have a
relationship with her. Wouldn't she be sad? So,
I'll let the grandchildren have their way, that's
reasonable. If my mother doesn't
agree, then my mother and I will have to accept it.
We'll have to rent a house to live in elsewhere. Do
you agree with treating my mother
like that?
Firstly, it's to prevent
my mother from falling into
bad karma. If my mother is like that...  In many
future lives, my mother will be born
into a family
that doesn't enjoy the blessings of filial piety.
Then, whoever my mother is, will give birth to
unfilial children. Do you all agree?
We must respect and cherish our mother through the karmic
consequences of our parents' past lives. And what about the present?
My mother loves me, so
when I explain things clearly and thoroughly, even if she
tells many people, they will all
advise her
that she is doing the right thing. Do you all agree?
Then my mother will forgive me
within one or two months.
That's a very easy way to act.
Applying this to Buddhism by contemplating the
karmic consequences of past lives and using that understanding to act in the
present will
prevent suffering in future lives. And if I
act this way in the present,
I will be a support for my children because they
see me as someone who acts correctly.
That karmic consequence will cause them to often ask
me about everything. Do you all agree? That's the power of karma; it's
not
something you can force them to ask you. We must live according to moral principles, and then our children will have everything they need.  I also asked myself, "If I live an immoral life,
my children won't ask me about
it either, if they're good children. But if they're bad and
evil, they'll side with me,
cursing their father, cursing the whole family because of their
selfishness and lack of understanding of karma. They
'll be selfish, thinking, 'You gave birth to me, you don't
care about me, you don't raise me, so
I don't need to respect you.' A
mother who doesn't live a good life will
attract bad children, and
their lives will be full of suffering. Do
you all agree?"
That's how Yen answered this question.
[Applause]